In Oro Valley, Arizona, troubled high school
student Sean Boswell and athlete Clay race
their cars, a 1971 Chevrolet Monte Carlo,
and a 2003 Dodge Viper, to win the affections
of Clay's girlfriend Cindy.
When Sean cuts through a structure and catches
up to Clay, Clay, desperate to win, hits Sean's
car repeatedly until they reach a high-speed
turn, which causes both cars to crash.
Clay and Cindy's wealthy families help them
escape punishment, but because Sean is a repeat
offender, he is sent to live in Tokyo, Japan
with his father, a U.S. Navy officer stationed
in Tokyo, in order to avoid juvenile detention
or jail.
While in Tokyo, Sean befriends Twinkie, a
military brat who introduces him to the world
of drift racing in Japan.
Sean has a confrontation with Takashi—the
Drift King (aka DK)—over Sean talking to
Takashi's girlfriend, Neela.
Though barred from driving, Sean decides to
race against Takashi, who has ties to the
Yakuza and drives a 2003 Nissan 350Z, Sean
in a 2001 Nissan Silvia S15 Spec-S loaned
by a racer named Han, but loses his first
race with Takashi due to his unfamiliarity
with drifting.
To repay his debt for the car he destroyed,
Sean agrees to work for Han, who drives a
1997 Mazda RX-7.
This leads to the duo becoming friends, with
Han agreeing to teach Sean how to drift, explaining
that he is helping him because Sean is the
only person willing to stand up to Takashi.
Sean moves in with Han and soon masters drifting
by practicing in a 2006 Mitsubishi Evo, gaining
respect after defeating DK's right-hand man,
Morimoto.
Sean soon asks Neela out on a date, and learns
that after her mother died, she moved in with
Takashi's grandmother, which resulted in their
relationship.
An enraged Takashi beats Sean up the next
day, telling him to stay away from Neela;
Neela subsequently leaves Takashi and moves
in with Sean and Han.
Takashi's uncle Kamata, the head of the Yakuza,
reprimands Takashi for allowing Han to steal
from him.
Takashi and Morimoto confront Han, Sean, and
Neela about the thefts.
Twinkie causes a distraction, allowing Han,
Sean, and Neela to flee, who are then pursued
by Takashi and Morimoto.
During the chase, Morimoto is killed in a
crash, leaving Takashi to pursue the trio
on his own.
Han allows Sean to overtake him in order to
hold Takashi off, but the chase ends when
Sean and Neela crash.
Meanwhile, moments after escaping from Takashi,
Han's car is t-boned, and the car explodes
before Sean has a chance to save Han.
Takashi, Sean, and his father become involved
in an armed standoff which is resolved by
Neela agreeing to leave with Takashi.
Sean's father prepares to send him back but
Sean pleads him to let him fix his own mess.
His father then agrees and makes amends with
him.
Twinkie gives his money to Sean to replace
the money that Han stole from Takashi, which
Sean then returns to Kamata.
Sean proposes a race against Takashi, with
the loser having to leave Tokyo.
Kamata agrees to the challenge, but on the
condition that the race take place on a mountain,
revealed to be the mountain where Takashi
himself is the only person to make it down
successfully.
Sean and Han's crew restore Sean's father's
1967 Ford Mustang Fastback to drift specification,
using several components of the previously
wrecked Silvia, including the engine.
That night, on the mountain, crowds gather
to see the race; Takashi takes the lead initially,
but Sean's training allows him to catch up.
Determined to win, Takashi resorts to ramming
Sean's car, eventually missing and driving
off the mountain while Sean crosses the finish
line, with Takashi's car almost falling on
him in the process.
Kamata keeps his word, and lets Sean remain
in Tokyo and is now christened the new Drift
King.
Some time later, Neela, Twinkie, and Sean
are enjoying themselves in their newfound
homeplace and freedom.
Dominic Toretto shows up to challenge Sean,
and he accepts after the American proclaims
himself as Han's family.